Hi everybody.
My name is Edwin.
As you can see behind me today
we're talking about iOS accessories.
So, on its own,
an iPhone or any other iOS
device is pretty amazing,
right?
You can do all these amazing
things besides talking on the
phone with the power of apps.
But there are some things that an iPhone,
due to its size and shape,
is probably not that well suited for.
For instance,
you probably wouldn't want to use
this to open a bottle of beer.
Now,
I had these great slides lined up for you
today to tell you how you would be able
to build a beer bottle opening accessory
and then buy an app to go along with it.
It would be really fun.
But unfortunately I was told at the last
minute that there are some of you in
the audience who are actually underage.
And so I regret to inform you that
we can't talk about beer today,
but there are lots of other
things we can talk about.
So, today we're going to show you
first how can you make your apps
work great with iOS accessories.
So, we're going to talk about the
external accessory framework,
now playing metadata,
and remote control of some accessories.
We will also give you all in the audience
who might be interested in how to get
started developing your own accessories.
So, to give a little bit of a
primer to the made for iPod
or iPhone/iPad or MFI program,
we'll also talk about standards-based
Bluetooth interfaces that exist on iOS.
And last but not least,
I know a lot of you in the audience
are really excited about AirPlay.
So, let's get started.
And just for you guys,
how do you want to make your
apps work great with accessories?
Some of you may know already about
the external accessory framework.
It's probably the most
well-known interface for apps
to work with accessories.
And it's responsible for really
great inventions like this
blood pressure cuff behind me,
which can communicate,
take my blood pressure,
communicate with the app
running on the phone,
and it'll probably remind me afterwards
that I really need to get in shape.
Working with this
framework is pretty simple.
Your app has to declare which external
accessory or EA protocols it supports.
And of course these have to be
protocols which are also supported
by the accessory you're working with.
Next,
your app will need to handle incoming
connections from that accessory so
that you know the accessory is there.
Then next,
open a session with the accessory.
And after that,
interact with the accessory.
You get a read and write stream
that you can use to communicate
information to and from the accessory.
It's entirely up to you and the
accessory developer to decide what
data to send over that stream.
It's pretty flexible.
Now, in iOS 5,
we actually introduced the ability for
EA sessions to operate in the background.
And that's a big deal because it now
means that your app can communicate
with an accessory even after it has
been backgrounded and the user is
using another app in the foreground.
We do have a couple of
requirements though.
First, your app must have a means for the
user to explicitly start and stop
communication with the accessory
from your app's user interface.
Next, your app will need to declare to
iOS that your app does work with
accessories in the background.
And you do this via a UI background
modes key in one of your plist files.
And last but not least,
accessories must use different
protocols for each concurrent app.
What does that mean?
Well, it means that if you have one
accessory connected to one iOS device,
it is now possible,
thanks to backgrounding,
for one app to run in the foreground and
another app to run in the background,
and both of these apps can talk
to the accessory at the same time.
It's a pretty neat capability.
But
Both of these apps and the accessory
must use different EA protocols
to communicate with each other.
That is the one thing I really want
you all to take from this slide.
And so to close out the EA framework,
I'd like to remind you all that
accessories can come and go at any time.
Users can plug in the accessory or
unplug it at really any time they choose.
This doubly applies if you're working
with wireless accessories over,
say, Bluetooth.
So make sure that your app deals
gracefully with these events.
Second,
don't assume that the communication
between your app and the accessory
is completely error-free.
Again, think about sudden
disconnects and reconnects,
but also think about wireless accessories
that might be right on the edge of
range or the accessory might be close
to running low on battery power,
etc.
Keep security in mind.
If that was your blood sugar information
traveling from that accessory to
that app running on the phone there,
If you feel a little bit uncomfortable
about that being out in the open,
then chances are your customers
will feel the same way.
So think about that when you
design the protocol between
the accessory and your app.
And last but not least,
work closely with the
accessory developer.
This is a classical intersection
between hardware and software.
And only close cooperation and
mutual respect and understanding
on both sides is going to result
in truly seamless user experiences.
Of course,
if you are developing the accessory
and developing the app yourself,
then you should have no
problem agreeing with yourself.
Next,
let's talk about now playing metadata.
Some of you may be developing apps that
can play media streams from external
sources like streaming music or video,
media streams.
You may not know that metadata about
the current playing stream can be sent
automatically from iOS to any connected
iOS accessory that supports this feature.
A good example is this TV behind
me where you can see that data
about the current playing song,
its artist and its album
artwork are all up on screen.
It isn't just TVs though.
There are lots of cars out there
with iPod and iPhone integration that
will also happily accept and display
this metadata right in the dashboard.
It's pretty cool.
So now that you understand
just how neat this feature is,
how do you make your app
take advantage of it?
Well, not too hard at all.
Sign up with the Now Playing Info
Center and then start
providing information.
We heavily recommend that you
provide as much information as
possible off this list we have up
here on the screen and provide that
information as often as possible.
True, maybe the accessory you have in
front of you for testing doesn't
display all this metadata,
but I am very certain that
there is some accessory out
there in the world that does.
And so why not give as much information
as possible to that accessory so that
it can take full advantage of it?
Next, we'd like to talk about
remote control events.
Those same accessories I just
talked to you about that
display now playing metadata,
many of them can also send user
input events back to your app.
So, good example,
if you have an accessory out there that
receives metadata and also has a play
or pause or a next track button on it,
your app can sign up to receive
those events back to your app.
Adding support for this
is also really easy.
Just call the method you see behind
me on the screen and then implement an
event handler for each incoming event.
These events can come
from all sorts of sources,
starting first and foremost with a
source that isn't even an accessory.
The iOS lock screen can
generate these events.
So that means that a user can interact
with your app without having to
unlock their phone or iOS device.
The headphone remotes that come in the
box with every single iPhone and have
the little button on the tap on the
cord also can generate these events.
And so can a large number
of MFI accessories including
lots of cars out there.
Last but not least,
AirPlay speaker endpoints and
Bluetooth AVRCP controllers can
also generate remote control
events that your app can receive.
So as you can see,
there's really no reason why your media
playback app should not be listening
for and responding to these events.
So, let's switch gears.
Let's say you want to
make your own accessory.
If so, great, we'd love to have you.
What should you think of
before you get started?
Well, we would heavily encourage that
you think about whether you need
to be in the MFI program or not.
And we'll talk more
about that in a minute.
Second,
think about what accessory interface
features you want to support.
And last but not least,
think about whether you as an
accessory developer want to also be
the only party writing apps for your
accessory or whether you want to
make an accessory that works great
with any of the apps in the app store
that can work with your accessory.
These three questions interplay
with each other quite a bit.
There are ways and accessory interfaces
that Apple fully supports and encourages.
and other users.
There are also accessory
interface features that only
make sense if your accessory only
intends to work with one app.
Choose carefully.
Let's talk about MFI accessories.
First, there's this logo
behind me on the screen.
The Made for iPod,
iPhone and iPad badge is a mark that
everyone in the world understands.
They can walk into a store and if
they're looking for products that
work great with their iOS devices,
they just look for this badge
and out the door they go.
They can buy with confidence and
that's why we definitely encourage
accessibility developers such as
yourselves who want to specifically
target and optimize your experiences
for iOS to enroll in the program.
Signing up on the program also gives you
access to lots of additional information.
Of course, there's technical information
and specifications and
certain components and such,
but there's also assistance with
product certification and of course
the logos and compatibility icons.
And last but not least,
even though it's not
mentioned on this slide,
you can get direct help
from Apple engineers who
can answer your questions.
So what's in the MFI program?
Well, AirPlay accessories
are in the MFI program.
So are AirPrint printers.
The headphone and remote microphone
interface that you see on hundreds
of third-party headsets around the
world is also part of the MFI program.
[Transcript missing]
Let's start with the
most basic feature here.
Everyone loves power.
If you're thinking about making an
accessory that docks with an iOS device,
we strongly recommend that you find a
way to provide power to the Apple device.
All of your users and
customers will appreciate that.
It means that they can use your
accessory without having to worry
about whether their battery is
going to drain in the process.
Now that said,
there are some valid and very
useful cases when it makes
sense for an accessory to draw
power from an Apple device.
That blood glucose monitor I showed
you earlier is a good example.
But in general, we recommend that you not
treat iPhone as a battery.
Your customers will appreciate that
because they won't have to worry.
I also want to point out to you
that the dock connector supports
USB audio and MIDI interfaces.
Over the past year,
this interface has become really
popular and there are lots of new
accessories coming to market and new
apps all the time related to music
and we're very happy to see that.
Certainly GarageBand for
iOS has definitely been a
part of this trend as well.
This interface is supported
by most recent iOS devices,
starting with the iPhone 3GS.
And if you're thinking of
writing an app that wants to
work with these accessories,
well,
you don't really have to think that much.
Just use the Core Audio or
Core MIDI frameworks.
These accessories will show up as
additional input or output paths.
It's that simple.
New in iOS 6,
we'd like to tell you all that
it is now possible to build
accessories that support more
than two channels of audio output.
And this means that, yes,
you can indeed write apps
or design accessories that
have more than two speakers.
We definitely look forward to seeing your
apps and your accessories start taking
advantage of this feature real soon.
Now let's switch gears
to the IAP protocol.
The IAP protocol is responsible
for a bunch of interesting features
that we feel really enhance
the user experience for iOS.
These are user experience
features that you won't find,
say, in other platforms.
And that's why we really encourage
accessory developers such as
yourselves to make use of them
and create a product which is
made for iPhone or made for iPad.
For example,
let's say you've built a great
app to work with your accessory.
Well, if your accessory requires
that app to operate,
how are you going to get your customer
to download and install the app once
they've taken it home from the store?
You could put a piece of paper in the
box or send them an email with a URL.
But you know what?
We think we have a better way.
If you follow the points that
we put behind me here on the
slide and your accessory informs
iOS of its preferred app,
then as soon as they plug
it in for the first time,
they get sent to the app store.
Couldn't really be any simpler.
This also, by the way,
applies if your app needs
to launch or run in order to
operate with the accessory.
If your accessory identifies
itself correctly to iOS,
then it can launch apps, including,
of course, your app that you wrote
for the accessory.
And the user will get an alert asking
if they want to launch the app.
They won't need to search through the
hundreds of icons for other apps they
may have installed on their device.
And quite frankly,
they won't even need to remember the name
of your app because it just shows up.
It's pretty cool.
We have a similar
feature in IAP for Wi-Fi.
Some of you may be building accessories
that have integrated Wi-Fi modules
and have written an app to communicate
with the accessory of Wi-Fi.
Well, I'm sure all of us in the audience
can identify with having to get a
newly purchased Wi-Fi peripheral
on the network for the first time.
We think we have a better way to do this.
If you implement IAP Wi-Fi login sharing,
then your user manual for
your accessory is three steps.
Step 1: Connect.
Step 2:
Push the Setup button on your accessory.
And Step 3: Say Yes.
Your accessory will then receive the
network information and password for
that Wi-Fi network that the iOS device
is currently connected to on the spot.
Your accessory can go online
and you're off and running.
This mechanism for the Wi-Fi setup,
by the way,
is heavily recommended if you're
thinking about building AirPlay speakers.
A similar approach exists for Bluetooth.
Let's say you've built an accessory
that also has a Bluetooth module,
say to act as a headset or a speaker.
You don't necessarily need to send
them to the Settings preference pane.
Instead, ask them to connect their
accessory to the device once,
and if your accessory is set up to
inform iOS of the Bluetooth MAC addresses
that are part of that accessory,
then iOS will start the pairing process
automatically if those components
have not been previously paired.
I'd also like to highlight that there
are several features in IAP which are
specifically targeted at accessibility.
We at Apple care a lot
about accessibility.
We want our products and our devices
to be accessible to all users.
And to that end,
we have also created several
accessory interface features to
help those users in particular.
With technologies like VoiceOver,
our screen reader for the blind,
as well as Assistive Touch for users
that have difficulty using more
than one finger to operate iOS,
accessories can use IAP to augment those
two features and actually give users who
have difficulty touching the screen at
all the ability to use an iOS device.
It's pretty neat.
And in iOS 6, we have added support for
made-for-iPhone hearing aids.
In addition to all the other great
features like FaceTime that we
have for the hearing impaired.
Made for iPhone hearing aids will be
coming from top manufacturers around
the world in the not so distant future.
And with them will come the ability
to grant hearing impaired users the
ability to listen to high quality
wireless audio streaming direct from
their iOS device to the hearing aids.
And not only that,
we've baked in the ability for
these hearing aids to be adjusted
and controlled straight from iOS,
so you can change the volume and switch
between different programs on the spot.
You will no longer need to
place your phone in the best
position in order to hear someone
talking on the phone correctly.
And you will not need to wear a dongle
around your neck to bridge between
the hearing aids and your phone.
Now in the short period of
time we have here today,
I can't possibly go over all of
the really cool features that
are part of the IAP protocol and
of the MFI program in general.
But hopefully this brief overview has
given you an idea of what's there.
We hope that you get interested.
We have more information at the end
of the session on how to get started.
And we definitely look forward to
seeing you be part of the program.
At this time, I'd like to hand over the
podium to my colleague,
Aaarti, who will also talk about the
standard Bluetooth interfaces
available for accessories.
Hello, everybody.
How is everybody doing?
Great?
My name is Aaarti Kumar.
I'm part of Bluetooth Engineering team
for iOS platform.
And today,
I'm going to talk about exciting
new Bluetooth features that we
have added as part of iOS 6.
Here is a brief overview
of our presentation.
We'll start with
Message Access Profile and then
talk about Siri integration support.
I'll briefly go over updates to
ATDP and AVRCP profile implementation
and then provide an update about
Bluetooth Low Energy features.
And lastly,
I'm going to talk about in-app accessory
connection support that we have added.
So let's get started with
Message Access Profile.
What is Message Access Profile?
Message Access Profile is part of
standard Bluetooth definition that
defines procedures and features
that can be used to exchange
message objects between two devices.
and using Message Access Profile,
we have added support to send iOS-based
app notifications like iMessages,
even reminders from an iOS
device to your accessory.
Our implementation is based
on Notification Center,
so any active iOS app
notifications like event reminders,
iMessage, email alerts,
can now be accessed via Accessory.
These alerts and notifications
are based on message object.
They are part of B message
format and will always have name
and full name included with it.
Phone number field may not be
included for every message.
For example,
something like iMessage will not have
phone number field included with it.
We also do not support sending
message reply from the accessory yet.
So here it is,
brand new profile in iOS 6,
Message Access Profile,
with which accessories can now get events
and notifications from their phone.
Next,
I'm going to talk about Siri integration.
All our customers love Siri,
and in iOS 6,
we have enhanced Siri support
via Bluetooth Link.
We have done this using hands-free
profile and added various new custom
AD commands to get Siri status
information and availability.
We have also improved voice recognition
performance over Bluetooth Link.
and we have added support for what
we call for as Scott mentioned,
Eyes Free Mode.
So what is Eyes Free Mode?
Siri Eyes Free Mode provides capability
for an accessory to limit Siri responses
that have display information.
A Bluetooth accessory can now enable or
disable Siri responses using this mode.
With these responses an accessory
can get Siri status information like
if Siri is available and is active.
It can also enable or
disable Siri responses using
Eyes Free Mode and then also initiate
a Siri session from my accessory.
With this accessory also has an
option of using high quality wideband
speech link for better audio quality
and we highly highly recommend
everyone of you to use that.
So this is Siri integration.
I hope you all are as
excited about it as we are.
Now let's talk about HTTP.
In iOS 6 one of our main focuses was
to improve audio quality performance.
Over Bluetooth link and with this in mind
we have added support for two new codecs.
The first codec is AACLC.
AACLC is part of standard A2DP profile
specification and we now render
it at 256 kilobits per second
compared to what we have currently
that is 128 kilobits per second.
This means that if you have an accessory
that supports AACLC codec on its device,
it will now be rendering at
a higher audio quality rate
of 256 kilobits per second.
The second codec that we have added
is AAC Enhanced Low Delay Codec.
So this codec, in addition to having
a higher audio quality,
also supports very low latency,
very low encoder and decoder
latency that improves end-to-end
latency in the system.
Why this is important?
This is important for various
kinds of real-time apps like game
applications or GarageBand-like apps.
And we think that will be a
really pleasant experience
for users to use this codec.
Keeping latency in mind,
we have also added a capability for an
accessory to report its playback latency.
We will use this information that
is provided by an accessory and
plug it into our system to get
better audio-video synchronization.
So that's A2DP.
Let's talk about AVRCP.
In iOS 6, we have added support
for AVRCP media browsing.
This provides an user to browse
through its music library,
navigate through playlists,
all on an accessory itself.
It can also search for audio
content that it's looking for
and start its media playback.
AVRCP Media Browsing We also have
support for extensive volume control
and reporting commands that can be
exchanged between an accessory and iOS
device to keep volume level in sync.
Next, I'm going to talk briefly
about Bluetooth Low Energy.
In iOS 6, we had our first implementation
of Bluetooth Low Energy feature
that had support for central role.
This provided an app to
communicate with the remote devices
using a low energy protocol.
And now in iOS 6,
we have added support for peripheral role
and an ability for apps to host services.
What does it mean?
It means apps can now have iOS
to iOS communication and also
have iOS to Mac communication.
Apps can also host multiple services and
can have multiple inbound connections.
We have follow-ups dedicated detailed
session on low energy features
and core Bluetooth framework.
And I would highly recommend everyone
for every one of you to attend that.
So that's low energy.
The last feature I'm going to talk
about is an app accessory connection.
We had a lot of requests from app
and accessory makers to have a
capability to find and connect to
your devices from an app itself.
And so in iOS 6,
we have enabled this support.
As you can see,
the apps can now use the new APIs that
are added as part of Accessory
Framework to find the devices and then
connect to it from the app itself.
In addition to that,
we have also added capability to wake
known devices from an app itself.
So that's an app accessory connection.
Let's take a glance at
Bluetooth specification-wise
where we stand.
So in iOS 5,
we had support for all these profiles.
And now in iOS 6, in addition to this,
we have added support for message
access profile at version 1.1,
Bluetooth Low Energy Service Manager,
which is part of Core Specification 4.0,
and then
Bluetooth Low Energy Peripheral Role,
which is also part of
Core Specification 4.0.
So this is it.
We are all very excited about all the
new features that we have added as
part of iOS 6 and would love to see
all these included in your products.
Here is a link to our accessory
guideline document that talks about
these features that we talked about
and has much more information.
With this,
I would now like to call Peter Langefeld
to talk about our AirPlay accessories.
Thank you all.
Good morning.
Welcome, everyone,
once again to WWDC 2012.
I'm Peter Langenfeld and I'm
here today to talk to you guys
about AirPlay Accessories.
Now, hopefully everybody's excited
about AirPlay Accessories,
but if you're confused or don't
quite remember what AirPlay is,
let me refresh your memory a little bit.
AirPlay is a collection of audio, video,
photo and mirroring.
It's a great new feature we
introduced in iOS 5.0 streaming
technologies that's based around Wi-Fi.
So, what am I going to focus on today?
Well,
mainly I'm going to talk about audio.
The reason for that is that audio is the
feature that third parties can access,
that Apple's provided you an interface
with through the MFI program,
in order to make your accessory
AirPlay compatible and make it such
that any AirPlay source can see your
accessory just like any Apple accessory
and stream the audio directly to it.
So, we've talked about a lot
of wireless technologies.
We've talked about a lot
of wired technologies.
What are the advantages of AirPlay?
Why would you want to choose
AirPlay over something else?
Let me talk you through
that a little bit.
First and foremost,
I think the key to AirPlay is
that it's Wi-Fi based.
It's standards based.
So, the infrastructure you
already have in your home,
the infrastructure that users in
general already have in their home,
their Wi-Fi router, etc., just works.
You don't have to go out and
buy anything special if you want
to set up a nice wireless audio
streaming session in your home.
You just have to buy
one AirPlay accessory,
start enjoying AirPlay,
and as soon as you get
that one first taste,
I'm sure you'll buy many
other AirPlay accessories.
Next up is that you have
a whole home audio range.
Anywhere that that wireless network,
that Wi-Fi network can reach,
your AirPlay accessory can be placed,
and you can have wireless
audio in that location.
That also means that I don't
have to be tied to a specific
range of that accessory.
So, if I decide to listen
to music in my bedroom,
for example, and then I decide, "Oh,
wait, I've got to go pick up the laundry
downstairs," as long as I have
Wi-Fi connection during that,
I can walk away, grab the laundry,
and then go to bed.
come back with no interruption of
the audio stream as it's going on.
In addition to that,
it's a multi-user experience.
So anyone that's on your Wi-Fi network to
begin with also has access to all of the
AirPlay endpoints on that Wi-Fi network.
If you have guests over,
as long as they have
access to your network,
again, they can just decide to stream
something to your device without
having to specifically pair with it,
without having to do any pre-thought,
etc.
So as long as you're
sitting in your home,
have Wi-Fi connection,
can enjoy the high-speed
internet connection,
you can also enjoy streaming
your audio to anywhere.
Next up is synchronous audio playback.
As I mentioned,
once you get a first AirPlay accessory,
many people decide to go and
get a second AirPlay accessory.
From iTunes,
you can decide to stream to all of
those AirPlay accessories in parallel.
So I can have a whole house party.
I can enjoy music in my bedroom
and music in my laundry room
as I walk through the home.
They're all synchronized.
I don't get echo effects
through the house.
We'll talk through a little bit of
phasing concerns that you should
have as an accessory manufacturer.
This is a great whole home audio
experience that I can enjoy
either targeted to a direct
single endpoint or I can decide to
spread out through my entire house
so everyone there can enjoy it.
The final thing that I think sets
AirPlay apart from many of the other
streaming technologies out there is that
we use the ALAC or the Apple Lossless
Audio Codec for the actual stream itself.
So what that means is you can take full
advantage of whatever high-quality audio
you're already enjoying on your device.
We don't resample, we don't compress.
You get the full effect anywhere you are.
And that goes all the way up to
CD-quality sound of 44.1 16-bit.
Okay, so that's great.
Those are some of the
advantages of using AirPlay,
but where can I use AirPlay from?
How do I actually access and
start streaming things as a user?
We've made it really
easy for them these days.
Pretty much anywhere in terms
of the Apple ecosystem that you
can enjoy your audio and you
can get to your audio library,
including streaming applications,
you can now send that audio data
out to the AirPlay accessory itself.
So from iOS, what does that mean?
We have both mirroring and
system audio or video output.
Again, for accessories,
that's limited to audio,
but it's full system audio.
So you get all apps,
you get all of your iTunes match content,
and you get all of your web content.
So anything you can
do on your iOS device,
you can take the audio and put it
out to a higher quality speaker.
Now, that's not always ideal.
Obviously,
we make the UI really easy so you
can switch back and forth if you're
portable and want to walk around
the house and just listen to it on
your headphones or your iOS device,
that's great.
You can do that.
But as soon as you want
to kind of broaden it out,
let more people enjoy it,
enjoy a different seating environment,
a different level of quality,
you can do that with AirPlay as well.
Next up is iTunes.
Both Mac and PC.
You can stream your entire music library,
all of your radio stations,
all of your podcasts,
all of your iTunes U content
directly to your AirPlay endpoints.
So you can enjoy really everything
that's there and available to you
through iTunes through AirPlay.
And finally,
as was mentioned yesterday by Craig,
we now, for Mountain Lion,
also allow the same great mirroring
and system audio output that
we allowed from iOS last year.
So again, that means all apps,
including iTunes match,
including web content,
anything that you can get
from your mountain lion,
you can get from iTunes.
So basically,
anything that you can get from your Mac,
you can now enjoy on an
AirPlay audio endpoint.
Here's what that looks like since
that's the new great feature.
It's basically just from
your sound settings.
You select AirPlay audio
endpoints just like you select
any other audio output device.
You go to your settings.
You select it here.
We basically just use the friendly name.
The friendly name is the name
that the customer decides
for that AirPlay endpoint.
So in this case,
there's an Apple TV and a
Zeppelin Air on the network.
But again, it's friendly.
It's easy.
You don't have to think through things.
It's just there as an audio output,
and you're ready to go.
Okay.
So hopefully you guys are excited.
Hopefully you're excited to start going
home and using AirPlay if you haven't,
going out and buying an
AirPlay accessory if you haven't.
And especially since
you're here as developers,
hopefully you're excited to develop
products that utilize AirPlay.
Now,
what do you have to think about when you
talk about developing an AirPlay product?
First and foremost is, you know,
customer experience is
getting on the network.
I come home, I unbox my device,
it's bright, it's shiny, it's great.
I put it down, I plug it in.
Oh wait,
I need to get on that Wi-Fi network.
How do I do that?
As Edwin mentioned,
there's a couple ways to do this.
There's custom apps,
there's Wi-Fi login sharing,
and there's acting as an access point.
Let me touch a little
bit on each of those.
Custom apps are a great way
to go because obviously you as
developers know your customer best.
If someone was attracted to
your product in the first place,
they obviously like the
way you think as a company,
they like your brand.
And you can walk them through the
way to actually set up that AirPlay.
And you can walk them through
the way to actually set up that
AirPlay endpoint through an app.
Obviously, if they plug into your device,
as Edwin mentioned, they get a prompt.
You can go download the app
without having to think about
where in the store to go,
without having to search anything.
And then that app can act essentially
as the quick start guide or the
manual to walk them through the whole
process of getting onto the network.
Pretty good experience.
Next up is Wi-Fi login sharing.
If you don't want to take the
time to develop an application,
if you don't think there's a branded
reason or an enhancement that
developing an app will really give you,
you can use the Wi-Fi login
sharing feature that Edwin showed.
Again, you plug in the device,
they press the setup button on the back,
and automatically the iPhone
prompts you and asks you,
"Do you want to allow this
accessory to join your network?"
Simple as that.
Finally,
if you don't want to do any of those,
you can act as a soft access point.
Now, we require you to act
as a soft access point,
not as an ad hoc network.
That's to make sure that you
have enhanced compatibility with
all the other devices out there,
including Macs and PCs that have a
couple of quirks to them occasionally.
A couple of things you
want to remember there,
though.
Make sure you support an
HTTP Bonjour record and make sure
you're compatible with Safari.
This is especially important if
you're using an iOS device because
obviously most people will be setting
up the product from an iOS device.
And that brings up
that last bullet point.
Make sure your web pages are
compatible with iOS browsing.
So make sure they don't have to
zoom and scroll and do weird things
to get to the network setting
or get to the naming convention,
etc.
Very important as far as user
satisfaction with your product.
right out of the box.
Next up,
your customers are really going to
notice the wireless performance.
So what have we done to help you there?
Well,
we've introduced Wireless Multimedia,
WMM.
We require everyone to be
WMM compliant now as far as an
AirPlay product is concerned,
AirPlay accessory.
And WMM is a quality of service
feature that's available on
all 802.11n access points.
What does that really mean?
Well,
what quality of service does is make
sure that the audio streaming data
is ranked above any other random
data that's going on your network.
It ensures that you have less dropouts,
ensures that you have a better
quality of service at further
points on your network.
So if you decide to take your
AirPlay accessory and put it on
the very edge of your network,
it'll enhance that kind of -- the
performance there on the edge.
And that's because you won't drop
out that audio as much and you'll
get a better overall experience
with your product in terms of making
sure you always hear continuous
audio streaming even though your
network is loaded up in other ways.
The next thing you as accessory
manufacturers really have to
be concerned about is antenna
placement and connection.
What you really want to make sure is you
eliminate dead spots in your product.
We do some compliance testing
when we bring your product in to
make sure consumers have a great
experience when they bring it home.
And the key here is that
wireless is a different beast.
It's a different technology.
It's a different beast than I think
a lot of you are probably used
to if you've been dealing with
wired accessories in that signal --
RF signal can come in from any angle.
It'll bounce off the walls.
It'll bounce off the ceiling.
It'll bounce off the floor.
So even if you're thinking
about putting your product up
against a wall and you figure,
oh, I can put a giant dead spot
in the back of my product,
it's not going to be a great
experience for your user because
there is RF signal that will be
coming in to the back of that product.
So your goal should really be to
have no dead spots in your product.
If you're looking at an azimuth plot,
make sure you try and do a perfect
circle around in the Z axis.
Make sure you can
receive from all angles.
And that will really enhance
the experience of your user.
It will really help them to get a better
wireless experience with your product
no matter where they decide to put it
when they have that Wi-Fi connection.
The other thing to note is make sure you
take manufacturing into consideration.
We see a lot of people that
do great antenna placement,
do great antenna design,
but then they route their cables in
hard 90-degree angles and they have
really complicated routes and connections
for the manufacturers to have to do.
That all degrades your wireless signal.
Any bending of the cables,
any strange connections you might
have definitely takes away from
the end product performance.
So make sure you do nice, calm curves.
Make sure it's really easy to get that
connector fully seated in your product.
Make sure it's just easy to make
sure all of your product as it goes
out the door from the manufacturer
has the highest quality available.
Finally, make sure you properly
shield your module.
That doesn't just mean shielding
the actual wireless parts,
but also shield any
other noisy components.
Make sure you have a good
amount of monist in your system.
The worst thing you can do is to spend
all this time designing your product,
making sure you have great performance,
and then have the noise of all your
other electronics when they're turned on
interfere with your wireless connection.
You've just basically undone all
the great hard work you just put in.
So make sure you take some readings,
do some sensing inside the box,
and if you're worried about it,
just put a nice metal shield
over the components that may be
creating noise in the frequency
ranges you're concerned about.
Also remember that just because
the peak frequency is low,
it doesn't mean you're
going to get a lot of noise.
The peak frequency of that
particular section of electronics
may not be in the Wi-Fi band.
It can still have resonances
in the Wi-Fi band.
So be very careful with this and
don't just assume that you're good
to go without doing some tests.
Next up I want to talk about kind of
the next level of consumer experience
and enjoyment is interruption behavior.
We here at Apple strongly believe
in the fact that explicit user
interaction should always take priority.
What does that mean?
It's a little confusing.
What we mean by that is that whatever
the user intends to do should just
happen without them having to think
about it or think through a specific
set of steps they need to worry about.
Let me give you an example.
If you have a tape deck and I'm
listening to a tape deck through my
accessory and I'm enjoying my 1980s
mix tape and all of a sudden I or
someone else in the home is like,
"Oh wait,
there's this great YouTube clip that
I want you to hear the audio from."
I don't want to have to
think as a user that,
oh, I have to stop the tape deck,
I have to walk over to
my AirPlay accessory,
I have to switch the input,
and then I can go to my iOS accessory
or my Mac or iTunes and start
changing things and selecting the
AirPlay endpoint to listen to music.
What I want to happen is,
as soon as someone thinks about the fact,
oh, I want to listen to an
AirPlay stream right now,
they start the AirPlay stream
and it just works.
They hear that instead of the tape deck.
That's the ideal.
That's explicit user interaction
and there's no thought involved,
they just enjoy the product
as it was meant to be enjoyed.
You should make sure for
the device as a whole,
in terms of AirPlay accessories,
that the device as a whole
has this concept integrated.
So if you're on a different input
that's not AirPlay and you notice
an AirPlay stream coming in,
someone did that actively.
Nobody's doing it automatically here.
We as Apple don't decide to just
send you random AirPlay streams.
Someone has commanded that
they want an AirPlay stream.
So you as an accessory manufacturer
should appreciate that fact and
switch over to the AirPlay stream to
let them get exactly what they want.
Now, we've taken our own advice and we've
made sure that AirPlay streams themselves
can interrupt other AirPlay streams.
So now if I'm listening
to one AirPlay stream and
my friend next to me says,
oh, wait,
you've got to hear this instead,
I no longer have to
worry about stopping it,
disconnecting from the
AirPlay accessory and letting the
next person connect to it and play,
et cetera.
We handle it all for you.
They just press play.
It pauses the first stream.
It disconnects.
It leaves everything in a clean state.
No worries for any of
the developers involved.
Okay.
The final thing I want to talk
to you guys about today is
room-to-room synchronization.
I mentioned that great feature
where you get whole home audio,
you don't get any echoes,
you don't get any sort of random
effects in the home as you're
walking from room to room.
There's a little piece of this
that's not quite as clear,
so let me walk you
through it a little bit.
The key here is to really
let the user appreciate where
it is they put the speaker.
So if they decide to place the speaker
here in the center of the stage,
there's a reason for that.
They wanted to hear music
from the center of the stage.
If you have any phase delay,
which you can get if you put
a DSP into your system or you
have different electronics,
etc., you can be out
of phase just slightly.
We allow up to 5 milliseconds.
What does that mean?
That means up to 5 feet out of phase.
So a radius of 5 feet from where
they place that speaker might be
where the source of the audio is.
That's pretty distracting in general.
If I place the speaker
in a specific place,
I don't want to hear it 5
feet shifted off to the left.
The key here is that we now
have a new API that allows you
to adjust this phase alignment.
You can adjust it forward or back.
You can tune it in exactly
to match your electronics.
This is especially important if
you decide to do a DSP because
a DSP can introduce quite a bit
of delay into your audio path.
But it's up to you as developers
to make sure you tune that API and
you tune your product as close
to zero milliseconds as you can.
So your motivation is that what
you give your users is that
they can hear audio from exactly
where they placed the speaker,
which was their intent.
Again, this whole idea that the
intent of the user is king.
We think that's very important.
We think this is going to really improve
the user's experience and really give
them a much better whole home audio
experience for those people that decide
to buy multiple AirPlay accessories.
And I think it's in everyone's best
interest in this room that everybody
buys as many AirPlay accessories
as possible because they have
the variety and the enjoyment of
AirPlay in every room of their home.
Okay, so, AirPlay accessories in general.
Let me wrap up.
We have a whole range of products that
are already available on the market.
Simple speakers, audio/video receivers,
very complicated things,
very niche products.
That said,
there's room for great expansion.
It's a whole home audio
experience by intent.
So, ideally, you'll have a whole
range of price points,
a whole range of quality,
a whole range of use cases where
people want to buy these products
and we definitely aren't flooded.
So, please consider putting
AirPlay into your product because
we think it's a great feature.
Also, take note of the fact
it's an MFI feature.
So, once you decide to put
MFI into your product,
you get AirPlay as well.
So, you can decide to put
AirPlay into your product,
take advantage of MFI,
put MFI in your product,
take advantage of AirPlay, etc.
It's a great thing that we think you
should all look into and consider.
Next, make sure you design and
you innovate your product.
Make sure you have your customer in mind
and think about exactly what they want.
Again,
there's lots of products in the space,
so figure out how to
differentiate yourself.
How to make sure that you're not just a
product that's going to be sold to you.
So, if you're a product that's
going to be sold to you,
you're going to have to think about
what you're going to be selling.
How to differentiate yourself.
How to make sure that your brand
stands out and that people want to
use your brand and continue to use
your brand in the rest of their home.
It's not just a one-trick pony,
for example, if, you know,
one speaker to fit them all.
Everybody has different size constraints.
Everybody has different
budgetary constraints.
desires in their audio quality.
So, pay attention to that.
And hopefully,
you guys will figure out a way to
innovate and keep quality high.
Okay.
Obviously, we went through a bunch
of information here.
We've got some great evangelists that
would love to hear from you guys.
We'd love to walk you
through your questions,
talk to you, etc.
Here they are.
Steven, Chicken, Craig, Keithley.
Developer.apple.com is your friend.
Make sure you go there.
That's the great place,
kind of the front door to
all the information about,
be it standard Bluetooth profiles
that we support as Apple,
or specific kind of custom protocols
like AirPlay and MFI type things.
And also realize that if
you're designing accessories,
we want you to report bugs the same
way you report bugs on our software.
So,
please use the bugreport.apple.com tool.
And please use the forums.
Discuss this amongst yourselves.
You can obviously help
yourselves quite a bit.
We've got some related sessions.
If anything that already talked
about is of interest to you guys,
we've got a core Bluetooth session,
and we've got an advanced
core Bluetooth session.
We'll talk about Bluetooth Low Energy.
We'll talk about all the great
features in iOS 6 and a lot of
the things we've supported in the
past to refresh your memories.
To wrap up in general,
we hope you're really excited about
developing accessories because we
think there's a great opportunity
for you to develop accessories.
There's a great need for accessories to
add on to the experience of iOS devices,
Mac devices.
Our entire ecosystem is key here.
And that is really one of the things
that keeps our customers happy is
that you guys are developing great
accessories to make sure you can enjoy
iOS devices in your entire lifestyle,
not just in the palm of your hand.
MFI offers you some
great custom protocols,
some great optimized experiences
for the iOS platforms,
both wired and wireless.
Anything custom falls into MFI.
Our Bluetooth offerings are
obviously standards-based.
iOS 6 is expanding on our support.
We've had great support
there in the past.
And AirPlay offers you a high-quality
whole-home audio experience,
which we think your customers will love.
So go out and develop.
Thanks a lot, guys.